## Abstract

The rise in technological use among children has raised concerns about its potential impact on their development. This study aims to develop a predictive model that analyzes children’s technological usage habits to assess their possible effects on cognitive, behavioral, social, and emotional development. The proposed system allows parents to input data related to their children’s technological usage. The data collected will then be processed using machine learning techniques to gain insights and predictions on the possible developmental effects on children. The results of the data analysis will be visualized through a dashboard to help parents gain a clearer understanding of their children’s technology usage trends.


This study investigates the various factors affecting child development including age, sex, and screen time per day. The application built for this study aims to provide a pleasant experience for the users with a user-friendly interface comprising a data input screen and a dashboard for analysis and visualization.  Data-driven models are used to assess the system’s accuracy and efficacy to ensure that the predictions are well-aligned with the established developmental research. The backend processing is handled using Flask (Python), where machine learning models are trained to find the best one. The best model is exported for use in the frontend. The web interface is built using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, with Chart.js used for data visualization, while the database used is SQLite.
